Ibn Jareer Al Tabary
Is everyone who wrote about history is a historian? or the historian is that one who studies, writes and analyzes history?
Tracking someone's life like Al Tabary can tell us about that.
He was born in Aamul in Tabaristan
He grew up there. His father was rich; so, he started teaching him in a young age.He memorized the holy Quran when he was 7.
He started being an Imam when he was 8 then he started studying Hadeeth"prophet's speech" when he was 9.
After he learned from scientists in his town, he was passionate about learning more. so, he went to Baghdad, to meet Imam Ahmad Ibnu Hanbal.
Unfortunately, he had heard that the Imam had passed away. Even though, he continued his journey to Baghdad, Koufa and Basra to meet scientists there and learn from them.
Ibn Khelikan, the author of "Wafeyat Al Aayan" i.e, dead notables, called Al Tabary, the hard worker scientist.
The author of that time and the owner of fantastic classifications
He was frank, memorizing, great in Jury, a head in Quran interpretation, unanimity and  otherness, great in history, Quran readings, language and other stuff.
Al Tabary has got many writings, such as his interpretation, his books in Quran readings, behaviors, worship, language and other stuff.
His most famous book is the history of nations, messengers and kings. Which is famous for Al Tabary's history.
It is considered the most thorough historic reference as it started with the beginning of humanity and ended with his time in 309 Hijri.
He didn't talk about Islamic history only, he talked about Persian and Roman history in a breathtaking detail; even though he hasn't got enough resources.
He followed narrative methods, which is a trustworthy, honest method, depend on narrating events directly without saying any comment or opinion.
He used to say:" If any reader found out something he doesn't like about our past or current days, and that he cannot find true.
I am here to let you know that it isn't my narration. It is the narration that I got as it is"